Anagram - Wikipedia Anagram From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article is about words that are remade by rearranging their letters.
For the game, see Anagrams.
For the band, see Anagram (band).
Animation for the anagram "Listen = Silent" An anagram is a word or phrase formed by rearranging the letters of a different word or phrase, typically using all the original letters exactly once.[1] For example, the word anagram can be rearranged into nag a ram, or the word binary into brainy or the word adobe into abode.
The original word or phrase is known as the subject of the anagram.
Any word or phrase that exactly reproduces the letters in another order is an anagram.
Someone who creates anagrams may be called an "anagrammatist",[2] and the goal of a serious or skilled anagrammatist is to produce anagrams that reflect or comment on their subject.
Contents 1 Examples of anagram 2 History 2.1 Influence of Latin 2.2 Early modern period 2.3 Modern period 3 Applications 3.1 Establishment of priority 3.2 Pseudonyms 3.3 Titles 3.4 Coincidences 3.5 Games and puzzles 3.6 Ciphers 4 Methods of construction 5 Prominent anagrammatists 6 Anagram animation 7 See also 8 References 9 Further reading 10 External links Examples of anagram[edit] Anagrams may be created as a commentary on the subject.
They may be a parody, a criticism or satire.
For example: "rail safety" = "fairy tales" "roast beef" = "eat for BSE" [3] "debit card" = "bad credit" "George Bush" = "he bugs Gore" "Justin Timberlake" = "I’m a jerk but listen" "New York Times" = "monkeys write" "Church of Scientology" = "rich-chosen goofy cult" "McDonald's restaurants" = "Uncle Sam's standard rot" An anagram may also be a synonym of the original word.
For example: "evil" = "vile" "angered" = "enraged" "pat" = "tap" "a gentleman" = "elegant man" "eleven plus two" = "twelve plus one" "placebo" = "obecalp" An anagram that means the opposite of the original word or phrase is called an "antigram".[4] For example: "restful" = "fluster" "funeral" = "real fun" "adultery" = "true lady" "customers" = "store scum" "forty five" = "over fifty" They can sometimes change from a proper noun or personal name into an appropriate sentence: "William Shakespeare" = "I am a weakish speller" "Madam Curie" = "Radium came" "George Bush" = "He bugs Gore" "Justin Timberlake" = "I’m a jerk but listen" "Tom Marvolo Riddle" = "I am Lord Voldemort" They can change part of speech, such as the adjective "silent" to the verb "listen".
"Anagrams" itself can be anagrammatized as "Ars magna" (Latin, 'the great art').[5] History[edit] Anagrams can be traced back to the time of the Ancient Greeks, and were then known as "Themuru" or changing, which was to find the hidden and mystical meaning in names.[6] They were popular throughout Europe during the Middle Ages, for example with the poet and composer Guillaume de Machaut.[7] They are said to go back at least to the Greek poet Lycophron, in the third century BCE; but this relies on an account of Lycophron given by John Tzetzes in the 12th century.[8] Anagrams in Latin were considered witty over many centuries.
"Est vir qui adest", explained below, was cited as the example in Samuel Johnson's A Dictionary of the English Language.
They became hugely popular in the Early Modern period, especially in Germany.[9] Any historical material on anagrams must always be interpreted in terms of the assumptions and spellings that were current for the language in question.
In particular, spelling in English only slowly became fixed.
There were attempts to regulate anagram formation, an important one in English being that of George Puttenham's Of the Anagram or Posy Transposed in The Art of English Poesie (1589).
Influence of Latin[edit] As a literary game when Latin was the common property of the literate, Latin anagrams were prominent.[10] Two examples are the change of Ave Maria, gratia plena, Dominus tecum (Latin: Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord [is] with you) into Virgo serena, pia, munda et immaculata (Latin: Serene virgin, pious, clean and spotless), and the anagrammatic answer to Pilate's question, Quid est veritas? (Latin: What is truth?), namely, Est vir qui adest (Latin: It is the man who is here).
The origins of these are not documented.
Latin continued to influence letter values (such as I = J, U = V and W = VV).
There was an ongoing tradition of allowing anagrams to be "perfect" if the letters were all used once, but allowing for these interchanges.
This can be seen in a popular Latin anagram against the Jesuits: Societas Jesu turned into Vitiosa seces (Latin: Cut off the wicked things).
Puttenham, in the time of Elizabeth I of England, wished to start from Elissabet Anglorum Regina (Latin: Elizabeth Queen of the English), to obtain Multa regnabis ense gloria (Latin: By thy sword shalt thou reign in great renown); he explains carefully that H is "a note of aspiration only and no letter", and that Z in Greek or Hebrew is a mere SS.
The rules were not completely fixed in the 17th century.
William Camden in his Remains commented, singling out some letters—Æ, K, W, and Z—not found in the classical Roman alphabet:[11] The precise in this practice strictly observing all the parts of the definition, are only bold with H either in omitting or retaining it, for that it cannot challenge the right of a letter.
But the Licentiats somewhat licentiously, lest they should prejudice poetical liberty, will pardon themselves for doubling or rejecting a letter, if the sence fall aptly, and "think it no injury" to use E for Æ; V for W; S for Z, and C for K, and contrariwise.
— William Camden, Remains Early modern period[edit] When it comes to the 17th century and anagrams in English or other languages, there is a great deal of documented evidence of learned interest.
The lawyer Thomas Egerton was praised through the anagram gestat honorem ('he carries honor'); the physician George Ent took the anagrammatic motto genio surget ('he rises through spirit/genius'), which requires his first name as Georgius.[12] James I's courtiers discovered in "James Stuart" "a just master", and converted "Charles James Stuart" into "Claims Arthur's seat" (even at that point in time, the letters I and J were more-or-less interchangeable).
Walter Quin, tutor to the future Charles I, worked hard on multilingual anagrams on the name of father James.[13] A notorious murder scandal, the Overbury case, threw up two imperfect anagrams that were aided by typically loose spelling and were recorded by Simonds D'Ewes: "Francis Howard" (for Frances Carr, Countess of Somerset, her maiden name spelled in a variant) became "Car findes a whore", with the letters E hardly counted, and the victim Thomas Overbury, as "Thomas Overburie", was written as "O! O! a busie murther" (an old form of "murder"), with a V counted as U.[14][15] William Drummond of Hawthornden, in an essay On the Character of a Perfect Anagram, tried to lay down rules for permissible substitutions (such as S standing for Z) and letter omissions.[16] William Camden[17] provided a definition of "Anagrammatisme" as "a dissolution of a name truly written into his letters, as his elements, and a new connection of it by artificial transposition, without addition, subtraction or change of any letter, into different words, making some perfect sense applyable (i.e., applicable) to the person named." Dryden in MacFlecknoe disdainfully called the pastime the "torturing of one poor word ten thousand ways".[18] "Eleanor Audeley", wife of Sir John Davies, is said to have been brought before the High Commission[clarification needed] in 1634 for extravagances, stimulated by the discovery that her name could be transposed to "Reveale, O Daniel", and to have been laughed out of court by another anagram submitted by Sir John Lambe, the dean of the Arches, "Dame Eleanor Davies", "Never soe mad a ladie".[19][20] An example from France was a flattering anagram for Cardinal Richelieu, comparing him to Hercules or at least one of his hands (Hercules being a kingly symbol), where Armand de Richelieu became Ardue main d'Hercule ("difficult hand of Hercules").[21] Modern period[edit] Examples from the 19th century are the transposition of "Horatio Nelson" into Honor est a Nilo (Latin: Honor is from the Nile); and of "Florence Nightingale" into "Flit on, cheering angel".[22] The Victorian love of anagramming as recreation is alluded to by the mathematician Augustus De Morgan[23] using his own name as example; "Great Gun, do us a sum!" is attributed to his son William De Morgan, but a family friend John Thomas Graves was prolific, and a manuscript with over 2,800 has been preserved.[24][25][26] With the advent of surrealism as a poetic movement, anagrams regained the artistic respect they had had in the Baroque period.
The German poet Unica Zürn, who made extensive use of anagram techniques, came to regard obsession with anagrams as a "dangerous fever", because it created isolation of the author.[27] The surrealist leader André Breton coined the anagram Avida Dollars for Salvador Dalí, to tarnish his reputation by the implication of commercialism.
Applications[edit] While anagramming is certainly a recreation first, there are ways in which anagrams are put to use, and these can be more serious, or at least not quite frivolous and formless.
For example, psychologists use anagram-oriented tests, often called "anagram solution tasks", to assess the implicit memory of young adults and adults alike.[28] Establishment of priority[edit] Natural philosophers (astronomers and others) of the 17th century transposed their discoveries into Latin anagrams, to establish their priority.
In this way they laid claim to new discoveries, before their results were ready for publication.
Galileo used smaismrmilmepoetaleumibunenugttauiras for Altissimum planetam tergeminum observavi (Latin: I have observed the most distant planet to have a triple form) for discovering the rings of Saturn in 1610.[29][30] Galileo announced his discovery that Venus had phases like the Moon in the form Haec immatura a me iam frustra leguntur oy (Latin: These immature ones have already been read in vain by me -oy), that is, when rearranged, Cynthiae figuras aemulatur Mater Amorum (Latin: The Mother of Loves [= Venus] imitates the figures of Cynthia [= the moon]).
In both cases, Johannes Kepler had solved the anagrams incorrectly, assuming they were talking about the Moons of Mars (Salve, umbistineum geminatum Martia proles) and a red spot on Jupiter (Macula rufa in Jove est gyratur mathem), respectively.[31] By coincidence, he turned out to be right about the actual objects existing.
In 1656, Christiaan Huygens, using a better telescope than those available to Galileo, figured that Galileo's earlier observations of Saturn actually meant it had a ring (Galileo's tools were only sufficient to see it as bumps) and, like Galileo, had published an anagram, aaaaaaacccccdeeeeeghiiiiiiillllmmnnnnnnnnnooooppqrrstttttuuuuu.
Upon confirming his observations, three years later he revealed it to mean Annuto cingitur, tenui, plano, nusquam coherente, ad eclipticam inclinato (Latin: It [Saturn] is surrounded by a thin, flat, ring, nowhere touching, inclined to the ecliptic).[32] An animation of an anagram related to Loch Ness Monster When Robert Hooke discovered Hooke's law in 1660, he first published it in anagram form, ceiiinosssttuv, for ut tensio, sic vis (Latin: as the extension, so the force).[33] In a related use, from 1975, British naturalist Sir Peter Scott coined the scientific term Nessiteras rhombopteryx (Greek: The monster (or wonder) of Ness with the diamond-shaped fin) for the apocryphal Loch Ness Monster.[34] Shortly afterwards, several London newspapers pointed out that Nessiteras rhombopteryx anagrams into Monster hoax by Sir Peter S.
However, Robert Rines, who previously made two underwater photographs allegedly showing the monster, countered that they can also be arranged into Yes, both pix are monsters, R.[35] Pseudonyms[edit] Anagrams are connected to pseudonyms, by the fact that they may conceal or reveal, or operate somewhere in between like a mask that can establish identity.
For example, Jim Morrison used an anagram of his name in The Doors song L.A.
Woman, calling himself "Mr.
Mojo Risin'".
The use of anagrams and fabricated personal names may be to circumvent restrictions on the use of real names, as happened in the 18th century when Edward Cave wanted to get around restrictions imposed on the reporting of the House of Commons.[36] In a genre such as farce or parody, anagrams as names may be used for pointed and satiric effect.
Pseudonyms adopted by authors are sometimes transposed forms of their names; thus "Calvinus" becomes "Alcuinus" (here V = U) or "François Rabelais" = "Alcofribas Nasier".
The name "Voltaire" of François Marie Arouet fits this pattern, and is allowed to be an anagram of "Arouet, l[e] j[eune]" (U = V, J = I) that is, "Arouet the younger".
Other examples include: "Damon Albarn" = "Dan Abnormal" "Dave Barry" = "Ray Adverb" "Arrigo Boito" = "Tobia Gorrio" "Buckethead" = "Death Cube K" "Daniel Clowes" = "Enid Coleslaw" "Siobhán Donaghy" = "Shanghai Nobody" "Glen Duncan" = "Declan Gunn"[37] "(Theodor) Giesel" = "(Theo) Le Sieg" "Edward Gorey" = "Ogdred Weary", = "Regera Dowdy" or = "E.
G.
Deadworry" (and others) "Anna Madrigal" = "A man and a girl" "Tom Marvolo Riddle" = "I am Lord Voldemort" "Ted Morgan" = "(Sanche) de Gramont" "Lorin Morgan-Richards" = "Marcil d'Hirson Garron" "Vladimir Nabokov" = "Vivian Darkbloom", = "Vivian Bloodmark", = "Blavdak Vinomori", or = "Dorian Vivalkomb" "Elon Musk" = "Muskmelon" Several of these are "imperfect anagrams", letters having been left out in some cases for the sake of easy pronunciation.
Titles[edit] Anagrams used for titles afford scope for some types of wit.
Examples: Homer Hickam, Jr.'s book Rocket Boys was adapted into the 1999 film October Sky.[38] The tapes for the revival of the BBC show Doctor Who were labeled with the anagram Torchwood, which later went on to be used as the name for a spin-off show.
In multi-episode shows, the program occasionally substitutes the anagram of an actor's name for the actual name to prevent revealing the true identity of the role (for instance, The Master) being played by the actor.
The New Wave band Missing Persons' best-selling album was called Spring Session M.
Hip-hop artist MF DOOM recorded a 2004 album called MM..FOOD.
Brian Eno's album Before and After Science includes a song entitled "King's Lead Hat", an anagram of "Talking Heads", a band Eno has worked with.
Juan Maria Solare's piano ballad "Jura ser anomalía" (literally "he/she swears to be an anomaly") is an anagram of the composer's full name.
His composition for English horn titled "A Dot in Time" is an anagram of "Meditation", which describes the piece.
The title of his piano piece that is a homage to Claude Debussy is "Seduce Us Badly".
Bill Evans's overdubbed piano elegy for fellow jazz pianist Sonny Clark is titled "N.Y.C.'s No Lark," and another composition, "Re: Person I Knew" is a tribute to his producer, Orrin Keepnews.
The title of Imogen Heap's album iMegaphone is an anagram of her name.
Progressive rock group Rush published a song off their 1989 album Presto titled "Anagram (for Mongo)" that makes use of anagrams in every line of their song.
The title of the fifth album by American rock band Interpol, El Pintor, is an anagram of the band's name and also Spanish for "the painter".
Many of the song titles on Aphex Twin's ...I Care Because You Do are anagrams of either "Aphex Twin", "The Aphex Twin", or "Richard D James".
In Disney's 1964 film Mary Poppins, Dick Van Dyke played Mr.
Dawes, Sr., as the anagram of his name, Navckid Keyd.
In the credits, the words unscrambled themselves to reveal his name.
Coincidences[edit] In Hebrew, the name "Gernot Zippe" (גרנוט ציפה), the inventor of the Zippe-type centrifuge, is an anagram of the word "centrifuge" (צנטריפוגה).[citation needed] Games and puzzles[edit] Anagrams are in themselves a recreational activity, but they also make up part of many other games, puzzles and game shows.
The Jumble is a puzzle found in many newspapers in the United States requiring the unscrambling of letters to find the solution.
Cryptic crossword puzzles frequently use anagrammatic clues, usually indicating that they are anagrams by the inclusion of a descriptive term like "confused" or "in disarray".
An example would be Businessman burst into tears (9 letters).
The solution, stationer, is an anagram of into tears, the letters of which have burst out of their original arrangement to form the name of a type of businessman.
Numerous other games and contests involve some element of anagram formation as a basic skill.
Some examples: In Anagrams, players flip tiles over one at a time and race to take words.
They can "steal" each other's words by rearranging the letters and extending the words.
In a version of Scrabble called Clabbers, the name itself being an anagram of Scrabble, tiles may be placed in any order on the board as long as they anagram to a valid word.
On the British game show Countdown, contestants are given 30 seconds to make the longest word from nine random letters.
In Boggle, players make constrained words from a grid of sixteen random letters, by joining adjacent cubes.
On the British game show BrainTeaser, contestants are shown a word broken into randomly arranged segments and must announce the whole word.
At the end of the game there is a "Pyramid" which starts with a three-letter word.
A letter appears in the line below to which the player must add the existing letters to find a solution.
The pattern continues until the player reaches the final eight-letter anagram.
The player wins the game by solving all the anagrams within the allotted time.
In Bananagrams, players place tiles from a pool into crossword-style word arrangements in a race to see who can finish the pool of tiles first.
Other anagram games include Bonza (Word Game), Bookworm (video game), Dabble, Jumble, Letterpress (video game), Perquackey, Puzzlage, Word Force, WordSpot, and Words with Friends.
Ciphers[edit] Multiple anagramming is a technique used to solve some kinds of cryptograms, such as a permutation cipher, a transposition cipher, and the Jefferson disk.[39] Solutions may be computationally found using a Jumble algorithm.
Methods of construction[edit] Sometimes, it is possible to "see" anagrams in words, unaided by tools, though the more letters involved the more difficult this becomes.
Anagram dictionaries could also be used.
Computer programs, known as "anagram servers"[40] "anagram solvers"[41] or "anagrammers",[42] offer a much faster route to creating anagrams, and a large number of these programs are available on the Internet.
The program or server carries out an exhaustive search of a database of words, to produce a list containing every possible combination of words or phrases from the input word or phrase using a jumble algorithm.
Some programs (such as Lexpert) restrict to one-word answers.
Many anagram servers (for example, The Words Oracle) can control the search results, by excluding or including certain words, limiting the number or length of words in each anagram, or limiting the number of results.
Anagram solvers are often banned from online anagram games.
The disadvantage of computer anagram solvers, especially when applied to multi-word anagrams, is their poor understanding of the meaning of the words they are manipulating.
They usually cannot filter out meaningful or appropriate anagrams from large numbers of nonsensical word combinations.
Some servers attempt to improve on this using statistical techniques that try to combine only words that appear together often.
This approach provides only limited success since it fails to recognize ironic and humorous combinations.
Some anagrammatists indicate the method they used.
Anagrams constructed without aid of a computer are noted as having been done "manually" or "by hand"; those made by utilizing a computer may be noted "by machine" or "by computer", or may indicate the name of the computer program (using Anagram Genius).
There are also a few "natural" instances: English words unconsciously created by switching letters around.
The French chaise longue ("long chair") became the American "chaise lounge" by metathesis (transposition of letters and/or sounds).
It has also been speculated that the English "curd" comes from the Latin crudus ("raw").
Similarly, the ancient English word for bird was "brid".
Prominent anagrammatists[edit] The French king Louis XIII had a man named Thomas Billen appointed as his Royal Anagrammatist with an annual salary of 1200 pounds.[43] Among contemporary anagrammers, Anu Garg, the founder of Wordsmith.org, created the Internet Anagram Server in 1994.
He is also the founder and editor of satirical anagram-based newspaper The Anagram Times.
Mike Keith has anagrammed the complete text of Moby Dick.[44] He, along with Richard Brodie, has published The Anagrammed Bible that includes anagrammed version of many books of the Bible.[45] Popular television personality Dick Cavett is known for his anagrams of famous celebrities such as Alec Guinness and Spiro Agnew.[citation needed] Anagram animation[edit] A computer-generated anagram animation An animated anagram displays the letters of a word or phrase moving into their new positions.
Animations can be created manually, or with software.[46] See also[edit] Look up anagram in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Acronym Ambigram Anagram dictionary Anagrammatic poem Anagrams, a board game Blanagram Constrained writing Isogram Letter bank Lipogram List of geographic anagrams and ananyms London Underground anagram map Palindrome Pangram Rebus Tautonym Word play References[edit] ^ "anagram".
CollinsDictionary.com.
HarperCollins Publishers.
Retrieved 22 September 2017.
^ Anagrammatist, Dictionary.com.
Retrieved on 12 August 2008.
^ Anagrammy ^ "antigram".
Definitions.net.
Retrieved 31 July 2019.
^ "Ars Magna".
PBS.
1 July 2008.
Archived from the original on 22 June 2009.
Retrieved 9 January 2017.
This Emmy-nominated short enters the obsessive and fascinating world of anagrams.
[Original article's link to video is dead, but link in archived article works.] ^ Of Anagrams, By H.B.
Wheatley pg.
72, printed 1862 T.
& W.
Boone, New Bond Street, London ^ Guillaume de Machaut, "Here of a Sunday Morning", WBAI ^ Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
(1911).
"Lycophron" .
Encyclopædia Britannica.
17 (11th ed.).
Cambridge University Press.
p.
153.
^ "Secrets of a Lost Art, part 1: Latin Anagrams - in Medias Res".
6 May 2018.
^ "Secrets of a Lost Art, part 1: Latin Anagrams - in Medias Res".
6 May 2018.
^ Cited in Henry Benjamin Wheatley, Of anagrams: a monograph treating of their history (1862); online text.
^ Stephen, Leslie, ed.
(1889).
"ENT, SIR GEORGE, M.D.
(1604-1689)".
Dictionary of National Biography.
XVII (1st ed.).
Smith, Elder & Co.
p.
377.
Retrieved 15 September 2019.
^ Lee, Sidney, ed.
(1896).
"QUIN, WALTER (1575?–1634?)".
Dictionary of National Biography.
XLVII (1st ed.).
Smith, Elder & Co.
p.
111.
Retrieved 21 September 2019.
^ Early Stuart Libels ^ Early Stuart Libels ^ Henry Benjamin Wheatley, On Anagrams (1862), p.
58.
^ Remains, 7th ed., 1674.
^ Thy genius calls thee not to purchase fame In keen iambics, but mild anagram: Leave writing plays, and choose for thy command Some peaceful province in acrostic land.
There thou may'st wings display and altars raise, And torture one poor word ten thousand ways.
^ Oxford Book of Word Games ^ Hugh Trevor-Roper, Archbishop Laud (2000), p.
146.
^ H.
W.
van Helsdingen, Notes on Two Sheets of Sketches by Nicolas Poussin for the Long Gallery of the Louvre, Simiolus: Netherlands Quarterly for the History of Art, Vol.
5, No.
3/4 (1971), pp.
172–184.
^ Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
(1911).
"Anagram" .
Encyclopædia Britannica.
1 (11th ed.).
Cambridge University Press.
p.
910.
^ In his A Budget of Paradoxes, p.
82.
^ Robert Edoward Moritz, On Mathematics and Mathematicians (2007), p.
151.
^ Anna Stirling, William De Morgan and His Wife (1922) p.
64.
^ "AIM25 home page".
Archived from the original on 6 June 2011.
Retrieved 6 March 2009.
^ Friederike Ursula Eigler, Susanne Kord, The Feminist Encyclopedia of German Literature (1997), pp.
14–5.
^ Java, Rosalind I.
"Priming and Aging: Evidence of Preserved Memory Function in an Anagram Solution Task." The American Journal of Psychology, Vol.
105, No.
4.
(Winter, 1992), pp.
541–548.
^ Miner, Ellis D.; Wessen, Randii R.; Cuzzi, Jeffrey N.
(2007).
"The scientific significance of planetary ring systems".
Planetary Ring Systems.
Springer Praxis Books in Space Exploration.
Praxis.
pp.
1–16.
doi:10.1007/978-0-387-73981-6_1.
ISBN 978-0-387-34177-4.
^ "Galileo's Anagrams and the Moons of Mars".
Math Pages: History.
Retrieved 16 March 2009.
^ "Galileo, Kepler, & Two Anagrams: Two Wrong Solutions Turn Into Two Correct Solutions".
Judge Starling.
^ Campbell, John W., Jr.
(April 1937).
"Notes".
Beyond the Life Line.
Astounding Stories.
pp.
81–85.
^ Gjertsen, Derek (1986).
The Newton Handbook.
Routledge & Kegan Paul.
p.
16.
ISBN 9780710202796.
^ Scott, Peter; Rines, Robert (December 1975).
"Naming the Loch Ness monster".
Nature.
258 (5535): 466–468.
doi:10.1038/258466a0.
^ "Monster Hoax?".
New Scientist.
Vol.
68 no.
980.
18 December 1975.
p.
739.
^ "Institute of Historical Research (IHR) home page".
Archived from the original on 30 September 2007.
Retrieved 7 March 2009.
^ I, Lucifer (Glen Duncan) ^ Lundin, Leigh (29 November 2009).
"Anagrams".
Word Play.
Criminal Brief.
^ Bletchley Park Cryptographic Dictionary.
Codesandciphers.org.uk.
Retrieved on 2014-05-12.
^ "Internet Anagram Server".
^ "Anagram Solver | Finding cool and funny Anagrams".
word-grabber.com.
Retrieved 2 February 2018.
^ "Fast Anagrammer: Fastest on the web for Scrabble, Words with Friends, and other word games".
www.fastanagrammer.com.
Retrieved 2 February 2018.
^ Southey, Robert (1865).
"CLXXIX".
The Doctor, Etc.
Longman, Greens, and Co.
p.
467.
^ "Anagram by Mike Keith".
^ https://www.amazon.com/Anagrammed-Bible-Proverbs-Ecclesiastes-Solomon/dp/0963009729/ ^ "Internet Anagram Server : Animated Gifs".
wordsmith.org.
Further reading[edit] Henry Benjamin Wheatley.
Of Anagrams: A Monograph Treating of Their History from the Earliest Ages to the Present Time.
Williams & Norgate, 1862.
Word Ways: The Journal of Recreational Linguistics.
Greenwood Periodicals et al., 1968–.
ISSN 0043-7980.
Howard W.
Bergerson.
Palindromes and Anagrams.
Dover Publications, 1973.
ISBN 978-0486206646.
External links[edit] Online Anagram Solver v t e Hidden messages Main Hidden messages Subliminal message Audio Backmasking Reverse speech Numeric Numerology Theomatics Bible code Cryptology Visual Fnord Paranoiac-critical method Pareidolia Sacred geometry Steganography Visual cryptography Other Anagram Apophenia Asemic writing Easter egg Clustering illusion Observer-expectancy effect Pattern recognition Palindrome Synchronicity Unconscious mind Authority control GND: 4286873-7 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Anagram&oldid=921288948" Categories: Anagrams Hidden categories: Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference Use dmy dates from October 2012 Wikipedia articles needing clarification from January 2017 Articles containing Latin-language text All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from March 2019 Articles with unsourced statements from September 2019 Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans العربية تۆرکجه বাংলা Беларуская Български Brezhoneg Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Frysk Galego 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Ido Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Íslenska Italiano עברית ಕನ್ನಡ ქართული Қазақша Кыргызча Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Magyar მარგალური Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Română Русский Scots Shqip Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் ไทย Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 14 October 2019, at 23:29 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply.
By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view